8:59 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
T-1 minute!
8:59 AM bstrie: wake up again!
9:00 AM who else is here?
9:00 AM cuz it's nearly party time

9:00 AM 
<aturon> 
o/

9:00 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
oh hey it's party time!

9:00 AM 
<bstrie> 
erickt: let's party

9:00 AM 
<steveklabnik> 
:)

9:00 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
and a good morning to you all!
9:00 AM or whatever timezone you're in
9:00 AM thanks again, and welcome to another fabulous meeting
9:01 AM so we have an agenda: https://github.com/rust-community/team/issues/42

9:01 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
'allo

9:01 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie and aturon, want to start off on https://github.com/rust-community/team/issues/42#issuecomment-227936517

9:01 AM 
<bstrie> 
I'll start
9:02 AM aturon: have you read that comment there that i left on the agenda issue? I've heard some rumblings that you've been working on something to this regard

9:02 AM 
<aturon> 
yes, i read it
9:02 AM i'd be happy to talk about some of the stuff i and others have been thinking about along these lines

9:02 AM 
<bstrie> 
mostly it just feels like the mozilla devs have been somewhat detached for a while now. I don't even know what went down for the last two company-wide mozilla gatherings, for example
9:03 AM I do like that we've gotten some official blog posts this year, but having more frequent check-ins helps people feel more informed about the process of language development

9:03 AM 
<aturon> 
definitely

9:03 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie: that's a good point, we should be writing up a blog post summarizing these work weeks

9:04 AM 
<aturon> 
so i agree that overall there's been a lack of communication and clarity on what's in the pipeline, etc

9:04 AM 
<bstrie> 
and it doesn't help that there's a dozen things in the air at any given time with varying priorities, e.g. I have no idea what the status on rustbuild has been for the past year

9:04 AM 
<aturon> 
i don't want to view this as primarily a *Mozilla* thing, though -- lots of people are doing important work that should be communicated
9:05 AM bstrie: so, some of the examples you're giving are interesting -- rustbuild has a dedicated tracking issue which acrichto has been keeping up to date

9:05 AM 
<bstrie> 
aturon: for non-mozilla folks, I feel like the "what are you doing this week" threads on urlo and reddit, as well as TWiR, serve that purpose

9:05 AM 
<aturon> 
similarly, with MIR we now have a milestone

9:05 AM 
<‚Ä¢brson> 
i'm interested in doing some work to collect all these subprojects into a single roadmap

9:05 AM 
<aturon> 
bstrie: i strongly disagree with framing this as Mozilla vs non-Mozilla :)
9:06 AM it's about project leadership, and active development

9:06 AM 
<bstrie> 
aturon: I suppose it's an unavoidable distinction, e.g. I *know* that you folks are doing rust stuff and I know that I don't know what the details are, but if e.g. erickt doesn't talk about rust stuff then I just presume he's busy with work :P

9:06 AM 
<aturon> 
neither of which is (or should be) tied strictly to Mozilla
9:06 AM hah, that's fair
9:07 AM anyway, don't want to get too fixated on that point
9:07 AM so let me mention a few of the things some of us have been talking about recently
9:07 AM and, i'm in the process of writing these up in a blog post/proposal
9:07 AM the most immediately relevant bit, as brson mentioned, is the idea of a visible roadmap
9:08 AM which is established on some consistent cadence (say, every 3 months or 6 months)
9:08 AM and basically tracks the major initiatives where people are committed to actively working,
9:08 AM each of which has a dedicated status page, points of contact, links, and ways to get involved

9:08 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie: my heart weeps every time I have to do real work without rust ;_;

9:09 AM 
<bstrie> 
that we be nice, yes, and goes well with the idea of quarterly mozilla goals
9:09 AM s/we/would

9:09 AM 
<aturon> 
so the roadmap would have things like MIR-trans, Trans-level incremental compilation, rustbuild rollout, etc

9:10 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
aturon: along these lines, can we re-encourage the subteams to restart tracking minutes in https://github.com/rust-lang/meeting-minutes?

9:10 AM 
<aturon> 
whatever the cadence is, we'd have a process for establishing the roadmap
9:10 AM that was open to everybody
9:10 AM (possibly RFC, possibly something more lightweight)
9:10 AM anyway, you get the basic idea
9:10 AM ‚áê jedahan quit (jedahan@moz-bjd.84k.0.216.IP) Quit: My Mac has gone to sleep. ZZZzzz‚Ä¶

9:10 AM 
<aturon> 
re: meetings,
9:10 AM that's another thing we've been talking about shifting, for a few reasons
9:11 AM in principle, everything that goes into a decision should be laid out publicly, on the relevant threads
9:11 AM we work pretty hard to do this, BUT,
9:12 AM if we're making these decisions in video meetings, it's extra work to capture these arguments
9:12 AM transcripts are one possible route, but it's very difficult to keep the quality/readability up

9:12 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
you just need to capture the gist of it, right?

9:13 AM 
<aturon> 
i think for important decisions, it's better to have a clearly-written rationale
9:13 AM which we try to provide after the fact

9:13 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
right

9:13 AM 
<aturon> 
where i'm headed is,

9:13 AM 
<carols10cents> 
this is totally carol's law https://twitter.com/Carols10cents/status/746359338634182656

9:13 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
aturon: are these decisions being made in mozilla-only vidyo?

9:13 AM 
<aturon> 
haha

9:13 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
lol

9:13 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
or is this subtaem vidyo we are talking about?

9:13 AM 
<aturon> 
subteams

9:13 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
ah ok
9:13 AM hm

9:13 AM 
<steveklabnik> 
carols10cents: zomg

9:14 AM 
<‚Ä¢brson> 
almost no decisions are made mozilla only

9:14 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
thought so :)

9:14 AM 
<‚Ä¢brson> 
pretty much only hr related

9:14 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
just wanted to check

9:14 AM 
<aturon> 
the only mozilla-only thing that exists is a short bi-weekly meeting where we talk about pure mozilla business (interns, hiring, etc)

9:14 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
brson: YOU HIRED jntrnr WHY WASNT I CONSULTED

9:14 AM 
<aturon> 
what brson said :)

9:14 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
aturon: one of the challenges though is that it takes some time to actually write up those well-written rationales

9:14 AM 
<aturon> 
anyway, so one possibility we've been thinking about is

9:14 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
:)

9:14 AM 
<aturon> 
to move decision-making away from meetings altogether
9:14 AM in many ways, meetings are not the ideal place anyway
9:15 AM for one, there's limited time, so if we don't get to something in a given meeting, it often gets delayed -- sometimes repeatedly

9:15 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
aturon: use github issues like we do?

9:15 AM 
<aturon> 
for another, it's often the case that not everyone has had a chance to fully read up prior to a meeting

9:15 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
except, for most subteams, you don't need a new repo

9:15 AM 
<aturon> 
well, so we already have forums for this
9:15 AM the RFC PRs

9:15 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
right

9:15 AM 
<aturon> 
so, there are a *lot* of details in making this work well

9:16 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
okay I gtg, but will catch up on the logs later 
9:16 AM yeah, I understand that :)

9:16 AM 
<aturon> 
for example, one useful thing the meetings do provide is a regular "habit" where we make sure decisions are being made on some cadence
9:16 AM so to make this work, we need automation and a dashboard to help subteam members track these obligations
9:16 AM and we need to keep the obligation list short enough that people actually get them done
9:17 AM one nice thing about this --
9:17 AM in the meetings, the various subteam members have built up a set of shared values,
9:17 AM but these aren't necessarily well communicated to the whole community
9:18 AM making it the default that all of the evaluation happens on github threads would help, i think
9:18 AM sidenote: of course, meetings are valuable because they are high bandwidth. we don't want to axe them altogether
9:18 AM but we could reorient them toward more focused discussion on particular topics -- e.g. brainstorming or analyzing a given issue or RFC -- without being tied to a decision point
9:19 AM and can consider opening that up beyond the subteam -- or at least recording as a google hangout or whatnot

9:19 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
aturon: I think bstrie is talking about a slightly different issue. You're approaching this more from how to make the meetings and the subteams more efficient
9:19 AM but bstrie (I think) is talking about visibility into the process from the external teams
9:19 AM err, external community

9:19 AM 
<aturon> 
i disagree; i'm actually worried that what i'm saying will make things *less* efficient :)

9:20 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
heh

9:20 AM 
<steveklabnik> 
and they're also connected; if more decisions are going down in written from
9:20 AM form
9:20 AM then, other people can see into the process, because it's written down, not in a meeting

9:20 AM 
<aturon> 
right
9:20 AM so basically, there's visibility at a number of levels
9:20 AM the roadmap idea gives big-picture visibility at a coarse grain
9:21 AM the meeting change gives small-picture visibility at a fine grain 
9:21 AM there are some other connected changes, but they're perhaps getting too far off topic -- and as i said, i'm in the process of writing all this up right now

9:22 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
can we also have an even bigger picture where we get subteam updates in https://this-week-in-rust.org?

9:22 AM 
<aturon> 
erickt: what kind of updates?
9:22 AM e.g. right now, we have weekly subteam reports
9:22 AM is there information that's missing?
9:22 AM ‚Üí jedahan joined (jedahan@moz-bjd.84k.0.216.IP)

9:23 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
hm
9:24 AM well we could at least have a link in twir to the relevant report in https://internals.rust-lang.org/c/announcements

9:24 AM 
<aturon> 
btw, one thought about the roadmap -- so each initiative in the roadmap would have its own status page, and i imagine that could be updated by a wider range of people than just the subteam members

9:24 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
that might help to flow people to that that don't know about irlo

9:24 AM 
<aturon> 
(i.e. we can have something like "shepherd" status)
9:24 AM that way, FAQs about initiatives can actually get recorded in one place
9:25 AM erickt: sure, link sounds good. (we currently post them to discuss)
9:25 AM this conversation is a bit difficult, because there are problems we might want to solve at many different levels
9:26 AM personally, i'm most concerned with clarity around big initiatives the community is working toward, and engagement of the subteams directly on RFC threads

9:26 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
yeah. I think one challenge we're having is that even a year ago it was much easier to passively follow what's going on in our community, but now we're so much bigger

9:26 AM 
<aturon> 
but i also think that the roadmap idea gives us space to communicate fine-grained status information
9:26 AM right

9:27 AM 
<carols10cents> 
yeah, like, questions like this should be easily answerable https://www.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/4o7en3/how_about_mir_translation_now/

9:27 AM 
<aturon> 
carols10cents: yep

9:27 AM 
<bstrie> 
you can get as ambitious as you want with the roadmap, but let's not let the perfect be the enemy of the good :P I just want to make sure people are informed about the development process

9:27 AM 
<aturon> 
and, in some sense it is -- we now have a github milestone for MIR! -- but figuring that out isn't easy

9:27 AM 
<carols10cents> 
right!
9:27 AM like it should be known where to get the answer

9:28 AM 
<aturon> 
bstrie: i don't think the roadmap is necessarily so ambitious -- i think it's main promise is a *single point of truth*
9:28 AM basically what carols10cents is getting at
9:28 AM put differently, you could say part of the problem right now is too much information, and what we need is clearer organization/centralization on the big stuff

9:29 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
well to fill in for skade here, we're getting to 30 minutes on this topic

9:29 AM 
<aturon> 
yep
9:29 AM TLDR from my point of view: the core team is aware of and concerned about communication issues at multiple levels,
9:29 AM and various proposals will be coming down the pike shortly

9:30 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
alright next agenda item: https://github.com/rust-community/team/issues/43
9:31 AM it's great people are excited about the survey, but we need to be careful about posting things here that aren't public :)

9:31 AM 
<‚Ä¢Manishearth> 
bstrie: part of the solution to the problem might just be having one person *not* on the subteams sifting through the meeting notes and picking out things the community might find interesting
9:31 AM (not on the subteams because when on a subteam everything is interesting to you :p )
9:31 AM and including this condensed thing in twir
9:31 AM 
‚Äî jntrnr rolls in late after doing errands
9:31 AM 
‚Äî ‚Ä¢erickt waves

9:31 AM 
<aturon> 
erickt: i'm a bit skeptical of the proposed rule -- i think a safer alternative is to use access rights to protect things you're not ready to go public

9:32 AM 
<carols10cents> 
üëç

9:32 AM 
<aturon> 
after all, the channel is publicly logged
9:32 AM it is, as far as i'm concerned, public period :)
9:32 AM ‚áê jdm quit (jdm@moz-4vu.06r.98.75.IP)

9:32 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
aturon: me too. I think we just need to be proactive about us posting links and things

9:32 AM 
<carols10cents> 
like, it shouldn't be *possible* to leak something
9:32 AM because if it's private, it should be in a private google doc or a private github repo

9:32 AM 
<jntrnr> 
yes, please
9:32 AM 
‚Äî jntrnr still feels sheepish about latest leak
9:33 AM 
‚Äî carols10cents hugs jntrnr

9:33 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
and watch for each other if we leak something by accident so we can pull it offline

9:33 AM 
<jntrnr> 
awww :D

9:33 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
not your fault jntrnr! you're awesomeness just couldn't be contained

9:34 AM 
<jntrnr> 
+1 on private google doc or github repo
9:34 AM I switched to the former just to be extra careful

9:35 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
so in summary, I don't think we need to take drastic measures, just be a bit more aware of things

9:35 AM 
<jntrnr> 
agreed.  don't post link unless they're public
9:35 AM ditto for mailing list I assume?

9:35 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
the community-team mailing list is private

9:35 AM 
<bstrie> 
or unless they have access controls

9:36 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie: yeah
9:36 AM can someone summarize this in https://github.com/rust-community/team/issues/43 and close it?

9:36 AM 
<carols10cents> 
unless particular mailing list threads have others CCed

9:36 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
carols10cents: right!
9:37 AM next topic, so skade brought up MozFest in https://github.com/rust-community/team/issues/44
9:37 AM I don't know anything about it, and skade's not here :)
9:38 AM does anyone know if we're going to have a presence there?

9:38 AM 
<bstrie> 
I don't even know what mozfest is

9:38 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie: https://wiki.mozilla.org/Mozfest/2016
9:38 AM (i was just looking it up too :) )
9:38 AM or https://mozillafestival.org/

9:38 AM 
<aturon> 
i don't really know anything about it either :)
9:39 AM ‚Üê aepsil0n left (eduard@moz-cuotk1.dyn.telefonica.de)

9:39 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
booyaa: this is happening in london, fyi
9:39 AM johannh: it's slightly closer to you too :)

9:39 AM 
<steveklabnik> 
mozfest is more of a mofo thing than a moco thing
9:39 AM in a sense

9:39 AM 
<aturon> 
(that's "foundation" vs "corporation" for those following at home)

9:39 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
hehe

9:40 AM 
<steveklabnik> 
yeah sorry heh

9:41 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
so it doesn't sound like there's much we have to talk about this :)

9:41 AM 
<booyaa> 
erickt: ooooo :)

9:41 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
alright next item
9:42 AM secret agenda item (because I forgot to put it on the agenda)

9:42 AM 
<jntrnr> 
ooooh

9:42 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
so our split meeting schedule last week still didn't manage to get new people to attend

9:42 AM 
<jntrnr> 
I *knew* there was a secret agenda :p
9:42 AM 
‚Äî ‚Ä¢erickt dons a trench coat

9:43 AM 
<jntrnr> 
are the people that asked for the alternate time present?

9:43 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
so the people who were around last week and I decided it'd be simplest if we just shift back to meeting this time
9:43 AM huon was the one that brought it up but he's been busy with work

9:44 AM 
<bstrie> 
isn't huon in california now?

9:44 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
and also moved to ^

9:44 AM 
<jntrnr> 
I'll be in NZ at some point, so I might complain
9:44 AM but it's maybe fine to keep just one time slot for the time being?

9:44 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
so I'm thinking we can have a semi-official meeting at the 2am UTC

9:44 AM 
<carols10cents> 
i'm going to be skade and say we should be doing outreach, esp if we're adding community team members,
9:44 AM to add people in asia

9:44 AM 
<bstrie> 
personally I feel like the purpose of this meeting is to get us in the community team off our butts, and the fact that community members can participate is just a nice side effect

9:45 AM 
<carols10cents> 
as team members

9:45 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie: yep! but I want to also keep up our funnel of getting more people off their butts :)

9:45 AM 
<carols10cents> 
but of course we can't add people we don't know, so we should be trying to get to know people in the rust china/australia/nz/etc communities

9:45 AM 
<bstrie> 
we're always going to be leaving someone out, so let's defer broader community involvement to asynchronous media like the issue tracker until someone explicitly asks for us to shift the schedule

9:45 AM 
<carols10cents> 
but that takes time :)

9:46 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie: you know, we probably should flesh out the readme on https://github.com/rust-community/team to mention
9:46 AM "hey, open a ticket if you want to participate but the meeting time doesn't work for you!"
9:47 AM and other stuff. it's a bit bare
9:47 AM any volunteers?
9:48 AM to improve the readme?

9:48 AM 
<booyaa> 
i think it's a good idea keeping this as an open channel (not in the irc sense) for people in other countries, means people can field questions and get answers asynchronously

9:49 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
+1
9:49 AM we ought to make it more obvious how approachable we are :)
9:50 AM I guess no one volunteers, so I'll at least try to do something
9:50 AM and it'll be so horrible, someone will have to fix it ;)
9:51 AM alright, any other last minute things?
9:51 AM last (9) minutes?
9:52 AM i guess not!
9:52 AM well then I release you

9:52 AM 
<bstrie> 
erickt: are we perhaps at last to the point where we should start having meetings based only on the presence of an agenda, rather than simply having one every week? :P

9:52 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
you are now free to run and play

9:53 AM 
<carols10cents> 
sometimes stuff doesnt get added to the agenda until just before the meeting :-/

9:53 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
heh that's my fault

9:53 AM 
<carols10cents> 
like the meeting occurring causes an agenda to appear
9:53 AM ‚áê ‚Ä¢brson quit (brson@moz-u3dg2t.sfo1.mozilla.com) Quit: leaving

9:53 AM 
<carols10cents> 
it's all of our faults!

9:53 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
I always forget to pull together items until the morning of

9:53 AM 
<booyaa> 
erickt: i'll pick up the team repo if you want

9:53 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
<3

9:54 AM 
<steveklabnik> 
:)

9:54 AM 
<booyaa> 
flesh out the readme.md right? when we meet, the irc channel and where agendas are created?

9:54 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
yeah

9:55 AM 
<booyaa> 
k

9:56 AM 
<‚Ä¢erickt> Erick Tryzelaar 
bstrie: surprisingly to me, I think we actually tend to have a decent agenda each week
9:58 AM ‚áê ‚Ä¢niconii quit (nicole@moz-6u4e0g.midco.net) Quit: leaving

10:06 AM 
<booyaa> 
oo-er gone deadly quiet, netsplit?

10:08 AM 
<jntrnr> 
booyaa: I think the meeting ended
10:09 AM ‚Üí jdm joined (jdm@moz-ajm.ffr.139.72.IP)

10:09 AM 
<booyaa> 
looks like it
10:09 AM can i do the ----meeting ended--- mark?

10:09 AM 
<jntrnr> 
booyaa: I think you just did :)

10:10 AM 
<booyaa> 
woot *high kick*
