# Agenda 2014-12-30

* stability attribute changes (brson) https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/507
* fott (aturon)
* impl-trait-for-trait RFC https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/546

# Attending

aturon, brson, nmatsakis, steveklabnik, nrc

# Status

- brson: deploying combined installer automation, beta channel automation, refreshing feature staging patch
- aturon: path implementation, int/uint issues, stabilization
- nrc: various syntax things, resolve things, etc.

# Action Items

# Friend of the Tree

This is a belated recognition of Kevin Ballard (aka @kballard, aka
Eridius) as a friend of the tree. Kevin put a lot of work into Unicode
issues in Rust, especially as related to platform-specific
constraints.  He wrote the current `path` module in part to
accommodate these constraints, and participated in the recent redesign
of the module. He has also been a dedicated and watchful reviewer.
Thanks, Kevin, for your contributions!

# impl-trait-for-trait

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/546

- nmatsakis: want to make it so if you have a trait then the corresponding trait objects implement that trait.

```
trait Foo {
    fn method(&self);
}

fn something(obj: &Foo) {
    // want it to be true that the type Foo : Foo   
    something_generic(obj);
    
    Foo::method(obj); // virtual dispatch 
}

fn something_generic<Sized? T:Foo>(obj: &T) { ... }

```

- nmatsakis: surprising this doesn't work. cleans up formal reasoning: ufcs form corresponding to virtual dispatch, Trait::method(...) should work via virtual dispatch. In the compiler there's wierd logic to deal with this.
- nmatsakis: important for the alpha because we want Fn::call to work for boxed closures.

```
trait Foo : Sized // <--  implicit
{
}

trait Foo for ?Sized { }  

trait Bar : Foo { }
```

- nmatsakis: problem: there's an implicit constraint that 'Self' must be sized, mostly  for consistency because all traits are sized by default. problem is that 'trait foo for ?Sized' ...[ what?]
- nmatsakis: want to make traits for unsized types by default, declaring explicitly when traits are only for Sized types.
- nmatsakis: removes some wierd corners of the syntax like `for Sized?`
- nmatsakis: seems to have minimal fallout because most traits actually don't care about sizedness. could be some bugs in the compiler that create more fallout.

```
trait Something {
    fn method(x: Option<Self>); // you might expect an error here
}

enum Option<T> { ... } // T : Sized default

impl Something for [int] {
    fn method(x: Option<[int]>) {...}
}
```

# stability attribute changes

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/507

- brson: There's been some negative feedback on this RFC, want to go through the arguments and see where we stand.
- nrc: Summary?
- brson: The basic revision here is to tie stability attributes to feature gates, where each attribute connects to a feature name. That means it's "just for us" (in std), not for external libs.
- brson: One pushback was that using this scheme to infer version requirements was pie-in-the-sky. We already know there are holes, it's not perfect.
- brson: But that wouldn't really invalidate the design; there are other motivations. It provides a way to track everything that goes into the language by tying them to a feature name. It makes the pipeline process of adding things to Rust more clear.
- brson: The second complaint was about taking away deprecated/unstable from userland
- brson: acrichto argued that the design of these features is not right for regular uses, because you have to opt in to total stability -- you'd rather have a white list of things to use unstably. He wants to punt on this for now, adding back a userland version of the feature later when the design is more clear.
- brson: I somewhat agree that automatic feature detection might be fanciful. But otherwise, I still think we should move forward.
- brson: We might change this RFC so that we can use less desirable names, leaving "unstable" etc for users down the road
[ some discussion missed ]
- brson: should i forcefully deprecate these attributes or just make them meaningless?
- aturon: meaningless
- nrc: seems like useful info to keep around



