# Attending

aturon, nmatsakis, brson, acrichto, pcwalton, huonw, wycats

# Agenda

- Subteam reports (subteam leaders)
- RFC https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1156
- Versioning/evolution strategy (nmatsakis, aturon)
- Report from Rust class (nmatsakis)
- 1.1, and release announcement plans (aturon/brson)

# Subteam reports

https://github.com/rust-lang/subteams/blob/master/tools/reports/2015-06-16.md

https://github.com/rust-lang/subteams/blob/master/libs/reports/2015-06-16.md

https://github.com/rust-lang/subteams/blob/master/lang/reports/2015-06-16.md

Need to advertise these better to the community.

# Default object lifetime bounds

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1156

- nmatsakis: I wound up implementing a system that gives you a warning basically if, and only if, your code would break under the change to defaults -- but doesn't actually make the change. I don't want to backport this to 1.1, because it hasn't been thoroughly tested and could ICE.
- nmatsakis: Some people on thread have argued that having a period of warning prior to breakage would help when we need to make this sort of change.
- wycats: Effectively deprecation?
- nmatsakis: Yes.
- nmatsakis: Effective policy: if we're making any kind of breaking change (soundness or not), the best option is deprecation + warning, next best is a legacy switch, and finally (only for soundness) we could pursue other options.
- nmatsakis: Warnings can be hard, though, depending on the change.
- wycats: [missed]
- nmatsakis: I originally had this RFC modifying policy docs, but I've since pulled that out. I want to talk about interaciton with LTS. The change included reasoning about "recent stabilization", but better to work with LTS.
[Some discussion around potential LTS cycles and how that interacts with course corrections.]

- nmatsakis: So, maybe we should recap and see if we're all on the same page.
- nmatsakis: Speaking specifically about course corrections:

    - They should be rare,
    - There should be a transition path,
    - They should not be visible to LTS users.

- nmatsakis: For breaking changes with soundness implications, there aren't hard and fast rules, but best practice is:

    - There should be a transition plan
    - If possible, backport to previous LTS (particular if it can be construed as a security fix)

- acrichto: IN the middle of an LTS release, we'd land the warning, and then make the breaking change?
- wycats: The rule I'd like to follow is you should only give people deprecation-like warnings if there's something for them to work to -- you'd have to backport the fix.
- nmatsakis: Usually in these cases, there is... though we'll probably have to see. In this particular example, there's a warning, and though I didn't backport a way to opt-in to the "fix", there's a simple workaround of writing the lifetime explicitly.
- nmatsakis: You could also imagine backporting a legacy flag such that your code breaks but you can opt back out -- but less friendly than opting in, I think.
- wycats: I think I'm more OK with flags if they don't cross LTS boundaries. IOW, people on LTS will never see them.

- nmatsakis: I want to ask: is everyone in favor of this particular change?
  - Yes.

- aturon: I'm worried about just landing this without explicit policy in place. What's the best way forward on continuing the policy discussion.

- nmatsakis: option (1) a discuss post, option (2) an RFC

- aturon: I don't think there's a huge difference between them, a discuss post gives more room for further input. Main thing is that we make clear (1) we're making a local decision about this RFC, (2) we have drafted a general policy that supports it which will undergo further discussion.

**General consensus**: let's make a discuss post on this topic.

# Report from class using Rust

- nmatsakis: Background: there was a course at Northeastern, with the topic being systems programming. It was taught in Rust. I got some reasonably detailed feedback from Matthias Felleisen and Jesse Tov. I plan to write a report, but want to share some of the highlights.
- nmatsakis: Students found it rough in the beginning, but once they got the hang of ownership/lifetimes, it went fairly smoothly
- nmatsakis: Nicest thing, when they moved into parallel programming, it was totally straightforward -- despite the students having no background in this.
- nmatsakis: Students were given some tasks for concurrent programaming in Java, and people had a lot of difficulty. When they moved onto doing this in Rust, it Just Worked.
- nmatsakis: They also did FFI work. They had a project where the job was to have C call into Rust, and then back. Most students did OK, but they had a lot of trouble getting the callback stuff working. Not too surprising since most of them hadn't done C before, so a lot of new stuff.
- nmatsakis: Most suggestions were about error messages, and also requests for more explicit names for lifetimes (for teaching/learning purposes).
- nmatsakis: For error messages, there were a lot of specific suggestions. For example, connecting error message phrases with parts of code they refer to using colors.
- nmatsakis: They're going to teach this class again, and hope to develop it into a set of course materials that other universities can use.
- aturon: Any complaints about compile times?
- nmatsakis: No
- acrichto: What about tool usage?
- nmatsakis: They used Cargo, but not sure about much else.
- acrichto: Calling into Rust from C is nontrivial.

# 1.1 release

Next Thursday! This is happening during the workweek. aturon to draft blog post, brson working on RELNOTES, will have everything in good shape by end of week.
