# Core team 2015-11-10

# Agenda

- move fmt to rust-lang (or nursery?)
- current thinking about wiki (brson)
- liblibc and winapi version bumps (aturon/acrichto)
- pattern matching update (nmatsakis)
- multirust - multirust-rs, cargo integration

# rustfmt

- Proposed to move rustfmt into the rust-lang organization
- Everyone in favor of moving into one of the orgs (rust-lang or rust-lang-nursery)
- Recapped rationale around nursery for the libs team
- acrichto: Don't feel that it's quite up to par to call it "rust-lang"; we can't yet run it on entire rust repo
- multirust is another example nursery candidate
- all in favor moving to nusery, want to make this an official part of tools team; will need RFC to promote
- should make this an official part of tools team process

# Wiki

- Recap of wiki concerns: nice to have a place to store documentation/info that can grow organically, talk about compiler development, policies, etc. 
- Downside of organic growth is you can end up with a disorganized sprawl, with lots of stale information.
- Questions: is there a gap here in organic growth/place to put this documentation? What should the scope be?
- wycats: Very concerned about staleness; have had lots of bad experiences around this in the past
- wycats: How do we avoid the downsides?
- nmatsakis: If not a wiki, where else would this info live?
- steveklabnik: I always wanted this to be "real" docs, but it tended to get sucked into the wiki
- brson: Don't want to get hung up on the term "wiki". These docs need to live somewhere. Steve is worried about quality, but it may be so important to have *some* docs that even low quality is better than nothing.
- wycats: My worry is about calling it a wiki and having no real access control; end up with a dumping ground
- brson: Nobody wants to open this up with no oversight/reviewing. Just want a place with a lower bar than the current web site
(Some discussion about strawman ideas)
- Proposal to be posted to internals forum

# liblibc and winapi major bumps

- Some key crates underwent a major version bump, with major breakage across the ecosystem
- Some of the problems:

    - `*` dependencies, which are going to be outlawed soon

    - cannot straddle major version boundaries (e.g. 0.1 - 0.2), because of resolution issues

    - winapi crates had an annotation for linking to a native library, and cargo doesn't allow multiple such annotations for a given native lib, so resolutions that keep both 0.1 and 0.2 would fail

- wycats: Those are the proximate causes. But note that the proposed solutions to these problems somewhat contradict each other. TL;DR, I think we were overeager in allowing duplication of dependencies -- want to discuss this more in the upcoming work week.
- no immediate action items: the current round of breakage is being mitigated, and has brought some awareness about dep story
- Will set up discussions at the work week, including with cargo consumers
- nmatsakis: Do any of these ideas lead to breaking changes?
- wycats: Possibly, depending on how you think about it -- it wouldn't change existing lockfiles, but could affect ability to resolve when you add new dependencies. Will need to think carefully about the tradeoffs here.

# Pattern matching update

https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/how-to-handle-pattern-matching-on-constants/2846/44 <--

- 14 broken crates on cargo
- Plan is to write RFC proposing deprecation strategy, given these numbers

# Multirust (short discussion)

- What's the plan with multirust-rs?
- Want to use it to unify Unix/Windows installation/rustup/rust installer
- Laid out a workflow with diggsey
- Want to rebrand unified tool as "rustup" (separate from cargo)
- Put everything in cargo/bin, no more global installs

- These are all rust libs, so you can develop e.g. visual studio plugins easily
- Also a great place to manage NDKs

design: https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/rustup-new-experience

- Some open questions around integration with Cargo, e.g. asking for a specific toolchain
