# 2015-10-06

# Agenda

* nightly/beta regressions (acrichto)
* broken crates.io crates (acrichto)
   1278/3115  last published before 1.0 = 41%
    890/3115  broken on 1.3 = 29%
        https://gist.github.com/alexcrichton/fcacdf0de38749d42560
    860/3115  broken on 1.5 = 28%
* new IRC channels (steveklabnik)
* crates.io outage (aturon + acrichto)
  https://gist.github.com/alexcrichton/d53924796df057ca0594
* catch_panic + exception safe story (acrichto)
  https://gist.github.com/alexcrichton/c884155509a953efe493
* Define Tier-1, Tier-2 platforms (aturon)

# Regressions

- 3-5 regressions that've popped up. They've been nominated, but need to be looked at by the relevant teams. Each of them has a small test case.

# Broken crates

- 41% of all published crates haven't been published since 1.0

These are likely overestimates due to testing only on Unix; most failures are -sys crates:
- 29% crates broken on 1.3
- 28% crates broken on 1.5

Is there low-hanging fruit for improving the crates.io experience here?

# New IRC channels

- Made #rust-docs channel, hoping to grow community around docs work

- There's been a suggestion for a beginner channel. While #rust is friendly, but people are still often afraid to ask, and the channel often has deep technical discussion which can be off-putting.

- Would need to be advertised widely

http://edunham.net/2015/07/31/how_many_rust_channels_are_there.html

# Crates.io outage

- Recently Alex received a text saying that crates.io was down. DNS issues again. It's not clear how to fix it without a dedicated EC2 instance. Some limitations around Heroku, in theory you can work around it but still seems to fall down in practice.

- Options:
    - Wait and see whether shorter TTL helps
    - Pick another DNS provider...
    - Set up a proxy

# recover and panic safety

- Alex did some experiments:
https://gist.github.com/alexcrichton/c884155509a953efe493

- Includes all of the impls except for Send + 'static
- Claim that usual pitfalls of OIBIT don't really apply here, given AssertExnSafe and the use cases we have in mind.

# Tier1/2 platforms

- Need to spec out and post our policy here more clearly. Alex to make initial draft.
