# 2015-11-03

# Agenda

- PERMANENT ITEMS:
    - review subteam FCPs https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Afinal-comment-period

- 1.5 release during work week (aturon)
- cargo check (wycats)
- patterns (nmatsakis)
  https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/how-to-handle-pattern-matching-on-constants/2846/16
- std::time (wycats)
  https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1288
- ffi complaint
- red flag on aster (wycats)

## 1.5 release during work week

- Make sure to prep blog post and relnotes before the work week
- Pay close attention to regressions leading up to the work week

## Cargo check

- Workflow for checking successful ability to build, without actually trans-ing; want to be able to do this in "watch" mode as well
- How many subcommands do we want for Cargo? Should this be a first-class thing?
- (Some discussion about stabilization, how this interacts with other compiler changes.)

- ACTION ITEM: make a repo that does this via cargo install, to get started. Just skip the trans step on the final crate.

## Patterns

Recapped https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/how-to-handle-pattern-matching-on-constants/2846/16

- ACTION ITEM: measure the results on crater, see how much breakage it would cause to revoke these patterns

## std::time

- The time RFC is up for FCP this week (closing tomorrow)
- Source of contention currently is: whether it's OK to have an API that does not offer some guarantees about some aspect of its behavior
- e.g., the way the RFC is written, there are two kinds of guarantees:
    - Monotonicity (if you ask for a time later, you get a bigger time)
    - No guarantees (if you ask for a time later, you might get a smaller time, due to NTP etc)
- Main counterargument: there are other questions you might want to answer. Is the system time UTC or TAI? Is it steady or just monotonic?
- These additional guarantees are not portable

    - So either provide their intersection, or provide a zoo of types

- But you could add guarantees in a later version if it becomes more clear how to do so

## ffi complaint

- Saw some commentary along the lines that we haven't put enough effort into FFI improvements (particularly calling C from Rust) -- things like alignment specification, untagged enums, etc. We postponed several RFCs along these lines in the past.
- We're doing pretty well keeping the bigger features on the radar, but it's easy to forget about small papercut fixes
- Going to signal that we would welcome new design/RFC work in these areas, and perhaps look at other areas of postponement for similar treatment
