# Agenda

* debug builders (acrichto) https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/24847
* opt-by-default (acrichto) https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/967
* mem::forget (and the other 4 RFCs) (acrichto)
* security policy
* governance

RFCs: https://etherpad.mozilla.org/rust-rfc-planning

# Attending

nmatsakis, aturon, huonw, steveklabnik, wycats, brson, pcwalton, acrichto

# mem::forget

Niko made a blog post responding to the various proposals related to
leakage:

http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2015/04/29/on-reference-counting-and-leaks/

TLDR is: this is subtle, there are a lot of avenues we've explored,
but fundamentally the tradeoff in complexity/composability
restrictions in things like Leak or making Rc 'static is not worth it
for solving the relatively thin problem of scoped-like APIs.

brson asks: can you imagine doing something in the future to rule out leaks?

niko: I'm somewhat dubious. I do have some hope that we can improve
scoped-like APIs in some other way (perhaps reducing rightward
drift). I'm very wary of a scheme that has global ramifications on
composability.

# Optimize by default

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/967

Requests Cargo/rustc optimize code by default.

- No clear consensus on the topic.
- Definite pitfalls on either side.
- All configurations will be possible no matter what; this is purely a
  question of defaults.
- No C/C++ compiler does -O3 by default.

Motivations to change from the status quo:

- People doing microbenchmarks without optimization
- Some projects want the best perf by default
- Accidentally pushing a debug binary into production can cause a huge problem

Argument for status quo:

- Simplest is that, the vast majority of the time you want `cargo
  build` you are doing development and want faster build time/debug
  info by default.
- No matter what you do, you need both options, so it will remain
  possible to accidentally produce the wrong kind of binary.
- If we tell people to type `--debug` most of the time, what stops
  them from accidentally typing that when they go to release? (iow,
  defaults that don't reflect most common usage may not have the
  desired effect).

# Debug builders

https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/24847

- PR to stabilize debug builders as-is.
- Not a lot of experience using it: Is this urgent?

Lots of discussion about the exact policy for ungating features. This
API seems good, but it hasn't been around very long and we're not sure
how widely it's being used. In general we need a clear procedure for
ungating -- perhaps something like the "final comment period" for
RFCs, where we ask for feedback from people using the API/feature.

For this case, we'll talk directly to the author and perhaps do an ad
hoc version of a "call for feedback" on discuss.

# Security policy

Still plan to put together a policy for security vulnerabilities, etc
before the 1.0 release.

There may be some core pieces, e.g. having an email address for
privately raising security issues, that we can put into place
immediately. But there are also more complex policy issues that we may
want to put through the RFC process, like what constitutes a security
issue.

Components:
- e-mail address
- expectations for response time
- PGP key

Conclusion:
- take basic steps now (and announce on discuss, together with intent
  for in-depth policy RFC)
- prepare a more in-depth RFC to hammer out

# Governance

- RFC thread is quiet, seems to have reached a kind of consensus.
- Seems reasonable to start a final comment period.
- How should we... actually do that?
  - Ultimately some kind of dashboard would be ideal
    - perhaps feature oriented
  - For now let's do a discuss post with a new tag for "Announcements"

# 1.0

- One soundness issue arose:
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/24622
- Starting to land significant PRs for 1.1
